it would be curious if this category was
for Best Performance by an actress in an
opposing role and yet the the brilliant
work of these five superb actresses
reminded me that with a child or with an
adult sometimes the most supportive
thing is to oppose opposition's great in
films and stories it's wonderful in
sports who wants a weak opponent in a
sports match it's really good in society
the thing these films made me remember
and think about was the difficulty
something that women seem to be better
at than men of opposing without hatred
so here are the nominees for performance
by an actress in a supporting role
Viola Davis fences they only have
moonlight
Nicole Kidman lion Octavia Spencer
hidden figure Michelle Williams
Manchester by the scene
and the Oscar goes to
Viola Davis
[Music]
this is the first Oscar and third
nomination for Viola Davis she was
previously nominated in this category
for doubt and for her leading role in
the pulp
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you to the Academy you know
there's one place that all the people
with the greatest potential are gathered
one place and that's the graveyard
people ask me all the time
what kind of stories do you want to tell
a viola and I say exhume those bodies
exhumed those stories the stories of the
people who dreamed big and never saw
those dreams to fruition people who fell
in love and lost I became an artist and
thank God I did because we are the only
profession that celebrates what it means
to live a life
so here's the August Wilson who exhumed
and exalted the ordinary people and to
Braun Pictures Paramount macro Todd
black Molly Allen's got Rudy for being
the cheerleaders for a movie that is
about people and words and life and
forgiveness at Grace and to Micheal T
Williams and Steven McKinley Henderson
Russell Hornsby Giovanna depo sanaya
Cindy for being the most wonderful
artist I've ever worked with and Oh
captain my captain Denzel Washington
thank you for putting two entities in
the driving seat August and God and they
served you well and to Dan and may Alice
Davis who were this and are the center
of my universe the people who taught me
good or bad how to fail how to love how
to hold an award how to lose my parents
I'm so thankful that God chose you bring
me into this world to my sisters my
sister Dolores who's here who played
Jaji and jogged out with me we were rich
white women in the tea party games thank
you for the imagination and to my
husband and my daughter my heart you and
Genesis you teach me every day how to
live how to love I'm so glad that you
are the foundation of my life thank you
to the Academy thank you
[Applause]